README.md, before:

# Chrome-Extension
A toolkit for web-birding on eBird and biolovision (ornitho, faune-...)

## eBird

### Target with Personal Location
Build a target list for a personal location based on personal location. Simply type in the name of the location you want (case and accent sensitive) and the location will be updated upon selection.

### Convert Target List to CSV
Create [comma-separeted value (CSV)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comma-separated_values) file from the **Target** page [ebird.org/targets](https://ebird.org/targets). The exported table contains the following columns:

| `rank` | `common_name` | `scientifique_name` | `frequency` | `link_map` |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| 1	 | Collared Dove 	 | Streptopelia decaocto	 | 11.12%	 | https://ebird.org/map/brant?gp=true&amp;yr=all&amp;env.minX=-5.144&amp;env.minY=41.334&amp;env.maxX=9.56&amp;env.maxY=51.093

![Export of Target list](https://github.com/Zoziologie/Chrome-Extension/blob/master/images/ExportTargetList.PNG?raw=true)


## Biolovision

### Convert Species List to CSV
Create csv files from biolovision **Specie List** (`m_id=94`) pages. This output pages is selected on the last tab of the **search engine** page (`?m_id=8`). The exported table contains the following columns:

| `number` | `common_name` | `scientifique_name` | `latest_date`* | `nidification`* | `link_observations`* | `link_stat`* | `link_info`* |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| 31 |	Greylag Goose |	Anser anser |	06.01.2020 |	certain |	https://www.ornitho.ch/index.php?m_id=94&showback=stor&p_c=5&p_cc=-1&sp_tg=1&sp_DateSynth=02.06.2020&sp_DChoice=offset&sp_DOffset=5&sp_SChoice=species&sp_S=60&sp_PChoice=canton&sp_cC=000100110000000000000011001001100000000000000000000&sp_FChoice=list&sp_FDisplay=DATE_PLACE_SPECIES&sp_DFormat=DESC	 | https://www.ornitho.ch/index.php?m_id=81&frmSpecies=60&sp_tg=1&showback=stor |	https://www.ornitho.ch/index.php?m_id=15&showback=stor&backlink=skip&frmSpecies=60&sp_tg=1

\* only in full table.

![Selection of summary](https://github.com/Zoziologie/Chrome-Extension/blob/master/images/search-engine-formating-2.PNG?raw=true)

![Export of species list](https://github.com/Zoziologie/Chrome-Extension/blob/master/images/SpeciesListoCSV.PNG?raw=true)

### Convert Summary to CSV
Create csv files from biolovision **Summary** (`m_id=32`) pages. This output pages is selected on the last tab of the **search engine** page (`?m_id=8`). The exported table contains the following column:The exported table contains the following column:

| `number` | `common_name` | `observers`* | `places`* | `link_observations`* | `link_stat`* | `link_info`* | `photo`* |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| ~40	| Greylag Geese	| 2 Observers	| 2 places	| https://www.ornitho.ch/index.php?m_id=94&showback=stor&p_c=5&p_cc=-1&sp_tg=1&sp_DateSynth=01.06.2020&sp_DChoice=range&sp_DFrom=01.06.2020&sp_DTo=01.06.2020&sp_SChoice=species&sp_S=60&sp_PChoice=canton&sp_cC=000100110000000000000011001001100000000000000000000&sp_FChoice=list&sp_FDisplay=DATE_PLACE_SPECIES&sp_DFormat=DESC	| https://www.ornitho.ch/index.php?m_id=81&frmSpecies=60&showback=stor&cDate=2020-06-01	| https://www.ornitho.ch/index.php?m_id=15&showback=stor&backlink=skip&y=2020&frmSpecies=60&sp_tg=1	

\* only in full table.

![Selection of species list](https://github.com/Zoziologie/Chrome-Extension/blob/master/images/search-engine-formating.PNG?raw=true)


![Export of summary](https://github.com/Zoziologie/Chrome-Extension/blob/master/images/SummarytoCSV.PNG?raw=true)


### Query coordinates
The the button `Draw Rectangle on Map` to search only sightings within the rectangle draw. The coordinates of the rectangle are automatically injected into your webpage under `Only within the following rectangle (W / S and E / N) : `. Note that `ornitho.ch` uses Swiss coordinates, but other website are using degree. 
![QueryCoordinate](https://github.com/Zoziologie/Chrome-Extension/blob/master/images/QueryCoordinates.PNG?raw=true)


### Query Season around Now
`[+/-xd]` search for sightings reported every year between -x days from today to +x days from now. The code inject automatically the correct day and month under `Beginning of the season :`
![QueryCoordinate](https://github.com/Zoziologie/Chrome-Extension/blob/master/images/QueryDate.PNG?raw=true)

Commit message:

update readme for anchor link and download

README.md, after:

# Chrome-Extension
A toolkit for web-birding on eBird and biolovision (ornitho, faune-...)

## eBird

### Target with Personal Location
Build a target list for a personal location based on personal location. Simply type in the name of the location you want (case and accent sensitive) and the location will be updated upon selection.

### Convert Target List to CSV
Create [comma-separeted value (CSV)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comma-separated_values) file from the **Target** page [ebird.org/targets](https://ebird.org/targets). The exported table contains the following columns:

| `rank` | `common_name` | `scientifique_name` | `frequency` | `link_map` |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| 1	 | Collared Dove 	 | Streptopelia decaocto	 | 11.12%	 | https://ebird.org/map/brant?gp=true&amp;yr=all&amp;env.minX=-5.144&amp;env.minY=41.334&amp;env.maxX=9.56&amp;env.maxY=51.093

![Export of Target list](https://github.com/Zoziologie/Chrome-Extension/blob/master/images/ExportTargetList.PNG?raw=true)

### Anchor Link
Create an anchor link for species entry in your checklist. Click on the link icon of the species to copy on your clipboard the url of this entry which you can then share. 
![Anchorlink](https://github.com/Zoziologie/Chrome-Extension/blob/master/images/Anchorpoint.png?raw=true)
For instance, clicking on the link icon of Madagascar pratincole will copy the url of the checklist with "#madpra1" at the end linking to this exact position on the page.

### Download Picture
Download any pictures on the macaulaylibrary at 2400px wide resolution (i.e. the original is only available for the author). The button/link "Download 2400" appears on all pages. 
![Anchorlink](https://github.com/Zoziologie/Chrome-Extension/blob/master/images/Download2400.png?raw=true)

## Biolovision

### Convert Species List to CSV
Create csv files from biolovision **Specie List** (`m_id=94`) pages. This output pages is selected on the last tab of the **search engine** page (`?m_id=8`). The exported table contains the following columns:

| `number` | `common_name` | `scientifique_name` | `latest_date`* | `nidification`* | `link_observations`* | `link_stat`* | `link_info`* |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| 31 |	Greylag Goose |	Anser anser |	06.01.2020 |	certain |	https://www.ornitho.ch/index.php?m_id=94&showback=stor&p_c=5&p_cc=-1&sp_tg=1&sp_DateSynth=02.06.2020&sp_DChoice=offset&sp_DOffset=5&sp_SChoice=species&sp_S=60&sp_PChoice=canton&sp_cC=000100110000000000000011001001100000000000000000000&sp_FChoice=list&sp_FDisplay=DATE_PLACE_SPECIES&sp_DFormat=DESC	 | https://www.ornitho.ch/index.php?m_id=81&frmSpecies=60&sp_tg=1&showback=stor |	https://www.ornitho.ch/index.php?m_id=15&showback=stor&backlink=skip&frmSpecies=60&sp_tg=1

\* only in full table.

![Selection of summary](https://github.com/Zoziologie/Chrome-Extension/blob/master/images/search-engine-formating-2.PNG?raw=true)

![Export of species list](https://github.com/Zoziologie/Chrome-Extension/blob/master/images/SpeciesListoCSV.PNG?raw=true)

### Convert Summary to CSV
Create csv files from biolovision **Summary** (`m_id=32`) pages. This output pages is selected on the last tab of the **search engine** page (`?m_id=8`). The exported table contains the following column:The exported table contains the following column:

| `number` | `common_name` | `observers`* | `places`* | `link_observations`* | `link_stat`* | `link_info`* | `photo`* |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| ~40	| Greylag Geese	| 2 Observers	| 2 places	| https://www.ornitho.ch/index.php?m_id=94&showback=stor&p_c=5&p_cc=-1&sp_tg=1&sp_DateSynth=01.06.2020&sp_DChoice=range&sp_DFrom=01.06.2020&sp_DTo=01.06.2020&sp_SChoice=species&sp_S=60&sp_PChoice=canton&sp_cC=000100110000000000000011001001100000000000000000000&sp_FChoice=list&sp_FDisplay=DATE_PLACE_SPECIES&sp_DFormat=DESC	| https://www.ornitho.ch/index.php?m_id=81&frmSpecies=60&showback=stor&cDate=2020-06-01	| https://www.ornitho.ch/index.php?m_id=15&showback=stor&backlink=skip&y=2020&frmSpecies=60&sp_tg=1	

\* only in full table.

![Selection of species list](https://github.com/Zoziologie/Chrome-Extension/blob/master/images/search-engine-formating.PNG?raw=true)


![Export of summary](https://github.com/Zoziologie/Chrome-Extension/blob/master/images/SummarytoCSV.PNG?raw=true)


### Query coordinates
The the button `Draw Rectangle on Map` to search only sightings within the rectangle draw. The coordinates of the rectangle are automatically injected into your webpage under `Only within the following rectangle (W / S and E / N) : `. Note that `ornitho.ch` uses Swiss coordinates, but other website are using degree. 
![QueryCoordinate](https://github.com/Zoziologie/Chrome-Extension/blob/master/images/QueryCoordinates.PNG?raw=true)


### Query Season around Now
`[+/-xd]` search for sightings reported every year between -x days from today to +x days from now. The code inject automatically the correct day and month under `Beginning of the season :`
![QueryCoordinate](https://github.com/Zoziologie/Chrome-Extension/blob/master/images/QueryDate.PNG?raw=true)
